Using more than 10 million observation on accomodation which includes over 350k Hotels and 1.2M Vacation rentals, we investigate how a typical booking pattern look like. 
What are the set of things which matters for hotel booking. 
Our goal of this project is to understanding a traveler’s journey of selecting & booking a hotel. We basically enquire following three questions:
  1. Who books more and how?
  2. How do different traveler segments behave?
  3. What determines hotel booking?

We use python programming language, the built-in libraries to do our analysis. The main python libraries used are: 
  1. sklearn : Used for model selection, principal component analysis, k-means clustering, pre-processing, random forest classifier, accuracy calculation, 
  2. SciPy : used for hierarchical cluster analysis, dendrogram, linkage.  
  3. Pandas : To deal with dataframe and their accessing specific information from data.
  4  MatPyplot: used for graphs, plots and data visualization. 
  5. Numpy: for matrix computationas
  
The main features of this work are: 
   1. We deal with big-data regime. We learned how to handle such a big scale of data given thier compuational problem, missing information and overwhelming information.
   2. We idenfity set of important variables out of around 175 variables using LASSO method. 
   3. We then rank the factors based on their importance in explaining our target variable. We do this using random forest classifier from sklearn library. 
   4. Using principal compoenent analysis and K-means clustering, we identify some patterns in the data. We couldn't do heirarchical clustering due to computational difficulty.
 

This is a group project with two of my other team members: Charu and Sakshee. The following is the division of work in this project: 
   Monika Baloda:  
     1. Implemented pattern recognition methodologies using PCA and Cluster Analysis.
     2. Theory, Coding, and Inferences of variable selection techniques (LASSO and Random Forest)      

   Charu Joshi : 
     1. Data acquisition & management         2.  Introduction, Project Evaluation & Conclusion
   Sakshee Vaidya :
     1. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) using python in Google collab 
     2. Data visualization & management
     
     
  I upload following files in this project: 
     1. Final project report contianing outcomes, results, inferences and theoritical modelling. 
     2. Main `Analysis' python notebook which implemented the random forest, PCA, LASSO, model eveluation techniques. This code file is completely written by me 
             and is the main heart of this project. 
     3. Data: We upload the downsized data used for the analysis. We also provide the public weblinks to access the original data in our project report. 
    
